# CMPUT 174/175 vs 274/275?
**Score:** 6 | **Comments:** 30
**URL:** https://reddit.com/r/uAlberta/comments/uv7jov/

As it says on the tin. I have prior programming experience - two years of Python in 11th and 12th grade and courses prior to that since late 9th grade. While I haven’t done a serious project as such, I’ve coded a game using the Pygame module amongst others for our final project, as well as more basic ones in my own time. Our syllabus covered the following:

- Algorithms: Flowcharts and Pseudocode 
- Python: Data-types, operators, flow of control, conditional statements, loops, intensive operations using strings and lists/tuples/dictionaries. Functions, Data (Stacks and Queues) and File Handling (text, binary and csv). Modules, both external and user-made. 
- Database Management: MySQL (DDL and DML, aggregate functions), Python and MySQL connectivity

- I also know the basics of other languages like C++ and C#. No formal courses in them as such, but I do know what I’m doing most of the time. I did a month’s worth of Arduino, and I’m mentioning this because I heard that 274/275 involves a fair bit of it.

Obviously, the syllabus is abridged, but what I’ve mentioned is the general gist of it.

Anyway, I’m uncertain as to how to proceed. Most of the research I’ve done seems to point to how taking 274/275 is a bad idea, since it appears to compress parts of 201 and 204 that are actually important. But I also think that sticking with 174/175 will be a waste of my time since it covers introductory things I’ve done multiple times over since 10th grade. I do want to branch out to other languages, which I believe 274/275 will offer me the chance to. Any insight from students taking 274/275 would be appreciated. Thank you!

---

## Comments

**u/thesamurfgod** (score: 3):
> Do not take 274/275 if you want to do well in your other classes.

    **u/thesamurfgod** (score: 3):
    > I think the best option is to take 174 and then 175. If the course is too easy then great, focus on learning outside of the classroom and developing a solid portfolio of personal projects. That's what gets you far.
    > 
    > And 274 and 275 and the worst designed classes I've ever taken. You legit put in 20 hours of time per week in just one of your classes. Everything is insanely crammed in. 
    > 
    > Idk maybe I'm just an idiot but it was a miracle for me getting through those classes.

    **u/TheComputerist** (score: 3):
    > I disagree. 274/275 wasn’t hard, I got an A ish in both. And imo the content of 274/275 is much more important than the content in 174/175 (which I heard was mostly PyGame).
    > 
    > PS. I only knew a bit of Python when I entered uni, so I was new to a lot of the content myself.

  **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 2):
  > This appears to be the general consensus. However, what other options do I have? I read somewhere on a post in this sub that it’s possible to get the prereq for 174 waived and move straight to 175. Is that a thing?
  > 
  > Edit: also, do you mind expanding on your experience with the course?

      **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 2):
      > Good point. I guess I can use the extra time to work on my own stuff. I’d rather leave 201 and 204 as they are instead of taking an insanely compressed course that only serves to have no benefit. Once I get the prereqs out of the way, things should be alright.
      > 
      > Thank you for the information! Also, just curious: did you have prior programming experience as well?

        **u/thesamurfgod** (score: 2):
        > I didn't have any prior experience. Maybe that's why I had to sink so much time into the class to get a decent mark. 
        > 
        > Something also to consider is 300 level courses. There are some courses where professors recommend taking 204 even if you've taken 275. This happened when I was enrolling into 350. Just something to consider.

          **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 2):
          > Ah, gotcha. Will consider the info regarding 204 as well; thanks for the response!

    **u/honestlylost18** (score: 2):
    > I do not think you can get 174 waived, even though I had previous coding experience since High School and still had to do it, but maybe they changed and you can get it waived? Anyways I would suggest its best for you to do 174 and since you have experience with pygame and such you can easily do well: )

    **u/KataGaruma** (score: 2):
    > frosh get pretty damn surprised by that first bunch of midterms. We are currently reading the deluge of "my first year didn't go as I expected..." posts.
    > 
    > Skipping to CMPUT 175 is not a great idea. If CMPUT 174 turns out to be easy-peasy, take the win and enjoy the GPA boost. I guarantee you will want that boost when reality seeps in. See my first paragraph above.

            **u/TheComputerist** (score: 2):
            > I had Math 125, Math 154, and Stat 151 in the fall.
            > 
            > Math 125: A difficult course for me. Linear Algebra is not really my cup of tea. I am guessing you will be taking this too as its a prereq for quite a few cs courses.
            > 
            > Math 134/144/154: A very easy course. All you basically do is differentiation and integration (high school stuff). Should be a GPA booster.
            > 
            > Stat 151: You will have to spend some time to understand hypothesis testing and stuff. The assignments take a long time. However, you get a formula sheet for the exams so you need not worry about memorizing the formulas.

                **u/KataGaruma** (score: 2):
                > Keep in mind that uni hits differently than high school. You do want to challenge yourself, but there is a pretty fine line between giving yourself a challenge and overwhelming yourself.
                > 
                > Pro tip: look out for your mental health at uni. It can be pretty stressful in this madhouse.

        **u/EurydiceNebula** (score: 2):
        > It was just something I read from another student in the class chat so unfortunately I don't know who they are. You could try joining one of the computing sciences discords and asking there?

      **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
      > I guess I’ll have to check in with the university and find out. But on further consideration, I think the latter would be a good idea; maybe coasting through the first year and working on my own projects would be better. Thank you so much for the response!

      **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
      > A reassuring comment. Do you recall what the course structure of 274/5 was like? I know it’s a bit more C-oriented, but that’s the extent of it. Maybe if I knew exactly what was being covered, the decision would be better informed. Also, did you have to take 204 separately later on? I don’t have an issue with doing that at all, especially if it’s a concentrated dose of something helpful. Thanks for the response!

          **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
          > Alright. I do recognize three of the topics you’ve listed for 275 and am quite excited to hear it. Spending time on it will be nothing short of exactly what I want to do.
          > 
          > I see. Well, if the difficulty is what I think it is now, it shouldn’t be a problem. Another question: how is it from the exams’ side of the equation?  I will have STATS and two MATH classes in the Fall as well; would it be doable? (To be fair, I think the only real challenge will be STATS because it’s something I’ve never done before, while the two MATH classes are just refreshing stuff I have.)
          > 
          > Anyway, thanks for your response! Appreciate the help.

            **u/KataGaruma** (score: 1):
            > Most people I've talked to have said that the 274/275 route was a shitshow. Subpar instructors paired with a heavy workload. Do keep in mind that only one of many people have recommended this route over 174/175 and if you do a few searches in this subreddit, you'll see that 274/275 naysayers are much much more common than people who dug the classes.
            > 
            > There are solid reasons for this (subpar instructors and crushing class time/workload)...

              **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
              > Oh, absolutely. I have read through many posts pertaining to the topic at hand. Doesn’t hurt to explore an exception though. This decision is not particularly leaning towards the former of course, but I’m also making sure I have opinions from all sides. Thank you for commenting!

                  **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
                  > I’ll keep that in mind. Thanks for the advice!

              **u/TheComputerist** (score: 1):
              > 174/175 is just too PyGame focused (which I don’t even think is that important). You might find that the instructions and content easy but I would always prefer 274/275 over 174/175.
              > 
              > The majority of the people who complain are those with little to no prior programming experience. 274/275 isn’t very easy. It’s not rocket science either. If goes through a lot of the more important stuff.

                **u/KataGaruma** (score: 1):
                > Been a sec since I took 174/175, but since these courses are more designed to teach concepts and computational thinking than languages, I'd argue that by using pygame, instructors are just trying to make the content more engaging.
                > 
                > I would also still argue that all of the pretty darned important things jammed into 274/275 are covered in much more detail in 201/204.

    **u/EurydiceNebula** (score: 1):
    > I was in CMPUT 174 last Fall and heard of someone who began in 174 but then switched to 175 because it was too easy. So I do think it's possible to get it waived.

      **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
      > Any chances you could get me in contact with this person, or was it simply something you happened to hear? Thanks for your response!

**u/SirKairon** (score: 1):
> Are you Honors or general

  **u/Xen0cynic** (score: 1):
  > None of the above. Spec, actually. I’m aware I have prereqs in place, but this was a more speculative question.

  **u/txmmy_21** (score: 1):
  > I'm in Honors, do I have to do 274 &amp; 275 or can I do 174 /175?

    **u/SirKairon** (score: 1):
    > You can do 174/75 if you don't feel comfortable but you gotta talk to Honors advisor

        **u/TheComputerist** (score: 0):
        > 274 is completely Python. 275 is completely C++. There are parts of 204 in 275, but they aren’t that in-depth. It is challenging for those with no previous coding experience. 
        > 
        > The only parts that take your time in 275 are graphs , heaps, dynamic programming and at least for me, divide and conquer. They are easy but you will need to spend some time to get the idea.
        > 
        > From your post, I would highly recommend 274/275.
        > 
        > I am entering my second year and I am planning to take 204 this fall to cement my understanding of algos.

**u/[deleted]** (score: 0):
> You could probably just skip 174 and do 175 because a lot of the things that mentioned are in 174.
